You may try, if you want, to understand how a classical vector is equal to
a matrix µσ, and maybe you will discover something—but don’t break your
head on it. That’s not the idea—they are not equal. Quantum mechanics is a
different kind of a theory to represent the world. It just happens that there are
certain correspondences which are hardly more than mnemonic devices—things
to remember with. That is, you remember Eq. (11.14) when you learn classical
physics; then if you remember the correspondence µ →µσ, you have a handle
for remembering Eq. (11.13). Of course, nature knows the quantum mechanics,
and the classical mechanics is only an approximation; so there is no mystery in
the fact that in classical mechanics there is some shadow of quantum mechanical
laws—which are truly the ones underneath. To reconstruct the original object
from the shadow is not possible in any direct way, but the shadow does help
you to remember what the object looks like. Equation (11.13) is the truth, and
Eq. (11.14) is the shadow. Because we learn classical mechanics first, we would
like to be able to get the quantum formula from it, but there is no sure-fire
scheme for doing that. We must always go back to the real world and discover
the correct quantum mechanical equations. When they come out looking like
something in classical physics, we are in luck.



3-1 The laws for combining amplitudes
When Schrödinger first discovered the correct laws of quantum mechanics, he
wrote an equation which described the amplitude to find a particle in various
places. This equation was very similar to the equations that were already known
to classical physicists—equations that they had used in describing the motion of
air in a sound wave, the transmission of light, and so on. So most of the time at the
beginning of quantum mechanics was spent in solving this equation. But at the
same time an understanding was being developed, particularly by Born and Dirac,
of the basically new physical ideas behind quantum mechanics. As quantum
mechanics developed further, it turned out that there were a large number of
things which were not directly encompassed in the Schrödinger equation—such
as the spin of the electron, and various relativistic phenomena. Traditionally, all
courses in quantum mechanics have begun in the same way, retracing the path
followed in the historical development of the subject. One first learns a great deal
about classical mechanics so that he will be able to understand how to solve the
Schrödinger equation. Then he spends a long time working out various solutions.
Only after a detailed study of this equation does he get to the “advanced” subject
of the electron’s spin.
We had also originally considered that the right way to conclude these lec-
tures on physics was to show how to solve the equations of classical physics
in complicated situations—such as the description of sound waves in enclosed
regions, modes of electromagnetic radiation in cylindrical cavities, and so on.
That was the original plan for this course. However, we have decided to abandon
that plan and to give instead an introduction to the quantum mechanics. We
have come to the conclusion that what are usually called the advanced parts of
quantum mechanics are, in fact, quite simple. The mathematics that is involved
is particularly simple, involving simple algebraic operations and no differential

equations or at most only very simple ones. The only problem is that we must
jump the gap of no longer being able to describe the behavior in detail of particles
in space. So this is what we are going to try to do: to tell you about what
conventionally would be called the “advanced” parts of quantum mechanics. But
they are, we assure you, by all odds the simplest parts—in a deep sense of the
word—as well as the most basic parts. This is frankly a pedagogical experiment;
it has never been done before, as far as we know.
In this subject we have, of course, the difficulty that the quantum mechanical
behavior of things is quite strange. Nobody has an everyday experience to lean
on to get a rough, intuitive idea of what will happen. So there are two ways of
presenting the subject: We could either describe what can happen in a rather
rough physical way, telling you more or less what happens without giving the
precise laws of everything; or we could, on the other hand, give the precise laws
in their abstract form. But, then because of the abstractions, you wouldn’t know
what they were all about, physically. The latter method is unsatisfactory because
it is completely abstract, and the first way leaves an uncomfortable feeling because
one doesn’t know exactly what is true and what is false. We are not sure how to
overcome this difficulty. You will notice, in fact, that Chapters 1 and 2 showed
this problem. The first chapter was relatively precise; but the second chapter
was a rough description of the characteristics of different phenomena. Here, we
will try to find a happy medium between the two extremes.
We will begin in this chapter by dealing with some general quantum mechanical
ideas. Some of the statements will be quite precise, others only partially precise.
It will be hard to tell you as we go along which is which, but by the time you
have finished the rest of the book, you will understand in looking back which
parts hold up and which parts were only explained roughly. The chapters which
follow this one will not be so imprecise. In fact, one of the reasons we have tried
carefully to be precise in the succeeding chapters is so that we can show you
one of the most beautiful things about quantum mechanics—how much can be
deduced from so little.
