We’ve been talking a lot about “events,” so just to make sure 
we’re on the same page with the definition of an event, we should 
give some examples of things that are not events. If a train is 
at rest on the ground (or even if it is moving), and if you look at
it at a snapshot in time, then this doesn’t describe an event, 
because the train has spatial extent. There isn’t a unique spatial 
coordinate that describes the train. If you instead consider a 
specific point on the train at the given instant, then that 
does describe an event. As another example of a non event, 
if you look at a pebble on the ground for a minute, then this 
doesn’t describe an event, because you haven’t specified the 
time coordinate. If you instead consider the pebble at a particular
instant in time, then that does describe an event. (We’ll consider 
the pebble to be a point object, so that the spatial coordinate is
unique.)

Returning to our setup with the light beams and receivers, we can 
say that because B sees both light beams move with speed c, 
the relative speed (as viewed by B) of the light and the left 
receiver is c + v, and the relative speed (as viewed by B) of 
the light and the right receiver is c – v.

REMARK: Yes, it is legal to simply add or subtract these speeds 
to obtain the relative speeds as viewed by B.  So in addition 
to calling it the “relative” speed, you can also call it 
the “gap-closing” speed. Note that the above
reasoning implies that it is perfectly legal for the relative 
speed of two things, as measured by a third, 
to take any value up to 2c.
Likewise, the relative speed between the light and the right receiver 
is c – v. The v and c in these results are measured with respect to 
the same person, namely B, so our intuition involving simple addition 
and subtraction works fine. Even though we’re dealing with a 
relativistic speed v here, we don’t need to use the velocity-addition,
which is relevant in a different setting. This remark is included 
just in case you’ve seen the velocity-addition formula and think 
it’s relevant in this setup. But if it didn’t occur to you, then never mind.
Note that the speed of the right photon4 is not c–v. 
(And likewise the speed of the left photon is not c + v.) 
The photon moves at speed c, as always. It is the relative speed 
(as measured by B) of the photon and the front of the train 
that is c – v. No thing is actually moving with this speed in our setup. 
This speed is just the rate at which the gap closes. And a gap 
isn’t an actual moving thing. 

There is always a difference between the time that an event happens and the 
time that someone sees the event happen, because light takes time to 
travel from the event to the observer. What we calculated above were 
the times tR and tR at which the events actually happen in B’s frame. 
(These times are independent of where B is standing at rest in the frame.) 
If we wanted to, we could calculate the times at which B sees
the events occur. (These times do depend on where B is standing at 
rest in the frame.) But such times are rarely important, so in general 
we won’t be concerned with them. They can easily be calculated by 
adding on a (distance)/c time for the photons to travel to B’s eye. 
Of course, if B actually did the above experiment to find tL
and tR, she would do it by writing down the times at which she sees 
the events occur, and then subtracting off the relevant (distance)/c times,
to find when the events actually happened.
To sum up, the tL ≠ tR result  is due to the fact that the events truly occur
at different times in B’s frame. The tL ≠ tR result has nothing to do 
with the time it takes light to travel to B’s eye.


 You shouldn’t feel too bad about having spent so much time learning about a theory that’s just
the limiting case of another theory, because you’re now going to do it again. Relativity is also the
limiting case of another theory (quantum field theory). And likewise, quantum field theory is the
limiting case of yet another theory (string theory). And likewise . . . well, you get the idea. Who
knows, maybe it really is turtles all the way down.
