"For every complex problem, there's a solution that is simple, neat, and wrong." H.L. Mencken  
A new scientific truth does not triumph by convincing its opponents and making them see the light, but rather because its opponents eventually die, and a new generation grows up that is familiar with it. -- Max Planck
The German physicist Max Planck said that science advances one funeral at a time. Or more precisely: “A new scientific truth does not triumph by convincing its opponents and making them see the light, but rather because its opponents eventually die ...
From the day Shechtman published his findings on quasicrystals in 1984 to the day Linus Pauling died (1994), Shechtman experienced hostility from him toward the non-periodic interpretation. "For a long time it was me against the world," he said. "I was a subject of ridicule and lectures about the basics of crystallography. The leader of the opposition to my findings was the two-time Nobel Laureate Linus Pauling, the idol of the American Chemical Society and one of the most famous scientists in the world. For years, 'til his last day, he fought against quasi-periodicity in crystals. He was wrong, and after a while, I enjoyed every moment of this scientific battle, knowing that he was wrong."[16]

Linus Pauling is noted saying "There is no such thing as quasicrystals, only quasi-scientists."[17] Pauling was apparently unaware of a paper in 1981 by H. Kleinert and K. Maki which had pointed out the possibility of a non-periodic Icosahedral Phase in quasicrystals[18] (see the historical notes). The head of Shechtman's research group told him to "go back and read the textbook" and a couple of days later "asked him to leave for 'bringing disgrace' on the team."[19] Shechtman felt dejected.[17] On publication of his paper, other scientists began to confirm and accept empirical findings of the existence of quasicrystals.[20][21]
Ptolemy was an astronomer and mathematician. He believed that the Earth was the center of the Universe. The word for earth in Greek is geo, so we call this idea a "geocentric" theory. Even starting with this incorrect theory, he was able to combine what he saw of the stars' movements with mathematics, especially geometry, to predict the movements of the planets. His famous work was called the Almagesti. In order to make his predictions true, he worked out that the planets must move in epicycles, smaller circles, and the Earth itself moved along an equant. None of this was true, but it made the math work for his predictions. This flawed view of the Universe was accepted for many centuries.
Well over a thousand years later, Nicolaus Copernicus came up with a radical way of looking at the Universe. His heliocentric system put the Sun (helio) at the center of our system. He was not the first to have this theory. Earlier starwatchers had believed the same, but it was Copernicus who brought it to the world of the Renaissance and used his  own observations of the movements of the planets to back up his idea. His ideas, including the revelation that the Earth rotates on its axis, were too different for most of the scholars of his time to accept. They used only parts of his theory. Those who did study his work intact often did so in secret. They were called Copernicans.
Born in Pisa, Italy approximately 100 years after Copernicus, Galileo became a brilliant student with an amazing genius for invention and observation. He had his own ideas on how motion really worked, as opposed to what Aristotle had taught, and devised a telescope that could enlarge objects up to 20 times. He was able to use this telescope to prove the truth of the Copernican system of heliocentrism. He published his observations which went against the established teaching of the Church. He was brought to trial and, although he made a confession of wrong-doing, he was still kept  under house arrest for the rest of his life. But it was too late to lock away the knowledge that Galileo shared.Other scientists, including Sir Isaac Newton and Johannes Kepler, seized its importance and were able to learn even more about the ways of the world and the heavens beyond.

These early scientists' legacy continues to this day. As time goes on, we use our instruments, science, math, reasoning, and creativity to learn more about the secrets of the Universe. In this way, we are directly linked to the astronomers of centuries ago who gave us direction to discover more about the dances of the planets and the nature of the stars.

M. Planck:
For everything that is relative presupposes the existence of something
that is absolute, and is meaningful only when juxtaposed to something absolute. The often-heard phrase, "Everything is relative, ” is both
misleading and thoughtless. The Theory of Relativity,too,
is based on something absolute,
namely, the determination of the matrix of the
space-time continuum; and it is an especially
stimulating undertaking to discover the absolute
which alone makes meaningful something given
as relative.
M.Planck:
N o phrase has ever engendered more misun­
derstanding and confusion in the world of scho­
lars than the expression, " Science without Presup­
p o s i t i o n s ." It was coined originally by Theodor
Mommsen, and was meant to express that scien­
tific analysis and research must steer clear of every
preconceived opinion. But it could not be, nor
was it, intended to mean that scientific research
needs no presuppositions at all. Scientific thought
must link itself to something, and the big ques­
tion is, where.

Kozma Prutkov:
"Throwing pebbles into the water, look at the ripples they form on the surface. Otherwise this activity will be an empty amusement."
Бросая в воду камешки, смотри на круги, ими образуемые; иначе такое бросание будет пустою забавою
Throwing pebbles into the water, look at the ripples they form on the surface, otherwise, such occupation becomes an idle pastime

"Many things are incomprehensible to us, not because our concepts are weak, but because these things are not in the circle of our concepts."
Многие вещи нам непонятны не потому, что наши понятия слабы; но потому, что сии вещи не входят в круг наших понятий.
Many things are incomprehensible to us not because our comprehension is weak, but because those things are not within the frames of our comprehension.

Einstein to Weil:
«Ваши рассуждения отличаются чудесной законченностью. Если не принимать во внимание несоответствие с действительностью, то это грандиозное достижение мысли»


Никто из современников Планка революции в физике не предвидел, более того, считалось, что эта наука уже выполнила все стоящие перед ней задачи. Это отметил в юбилейном докладе Королевскому обществу 27 апреля 1900 года патриарх британской физики лорд Кельвин. И только два облачка, по его словам, омрачали ясный научный небосклон. Первое облачко — это вопрос, как может Земля без трения и потери энергии двигаться через упругую среду, каковой является светоносный эфир? А второе облачко — это непреодолимые противоречия теории и опыта в вопросе об излучении «абсолютно чёрного тела».

Примерно то же говорил в 1874 году юному студенту Максу Планку профессор Филипп фон Жолли, руководивший отделением физики Мюнхенского университета, когда Макс обратился к нему с просьбой записать его в число слушателей лекций по теоретической физике. Маститый учёный попытался отговорить юношу: «Молодой человек! Зачем вы хотите испортить себе жизнь, ведь физика как наука в основном завершена. Осталось прояснить несколько несущественных неясных мест. Стоит ли браться за такое бесперспективное дело?!»1. К счастью для физики, студент оказался настойчивым и находчивым: он ответил, что не собирается открывать ничего нового, а хочет только изучить то, что уже известно.

The Advanced Circuit Research Center (ACRC) ) is inviting you to a free online seminar on “Quantum Computer on a CMOS Chip” given by Prof. Robert Bogdan Staszewski, University College Dublin.

Quantum computing is a new paradigm that exploits fundamental principles
of quantum mechanics, such as superposition and entanglement, to tackle
problems in mathematics, chemistry and material science that are well
beyond the reach of supercomputers. Despite the intensive worldwide race 
to build a useful quantum computer, it is projected to take decades 
before reaching the state of useful quantum supremacy. 
The main challenge is that qubits operate at the atomic level, 
thus are extremely fragile, and difficult to control and read out. 
The current state-of-art implements a few dozen magnetic-spin based 
qubits in a highly specialized technology and cools them down to a 
few tens of millikelvin. The high cost of cryogenic cooling prevents 
its widespread use. A companion classical electronic controller,
needed to control and read out the qubits, is mostly realized with 
room-temperature laboratory instrumentation. This makes it bulky and 
nearly impossible to scale up to the thousands or millions of qubits 
needed for practical quantum algorithms. We propose a new quantum 
computer paradigm that exploits the wonderful scaling achievements 
of mainstream integrated circuits (IC) technology which underpins 
personal computers and mobile phones. Just like with a small IC chip, 
where a single nanometer-sized CMOS transistor can be reliably 
replicated millions of times to build a digital processor, we
propose a new structure of a qubit realized as a CMOS-compatible 
charge-based quantum dot that can be reliably replicated thousands 
of times to construct a quantum processor. Combined with an on-chip
CMOS controller, it will realize a useful quantum computer which 
can operate at a much higher temperature of 4 kelvin. Preliminary
experimental result appears to validate the proposed ideas.


The Munich physics professor Philipp von Jolly advised Planck against going into physics, 
saying, "in this field, almost everything is already discovered, and all that remains 
is to fill a few holes."[11] Planck replied that he did not wish to discover new 
things, but only to understand the known fundamentals of the field, and so began 
his studies in 1874 at the University of Munich. Under Jolly's supervision, 
Planck performed the only experiments of his scientific career, studying the 
diffusion of hydrogen through heated platinum, but transferred to theoretical physics.


“Physics is becoming so unbelievably complex that it is taking longer and longer to train
a physicist. It is taking so long, in fact, to train a physicist to the place where 
he understands the nature of physical problems that he is already too old to solve them.”
Eugene Paul Wigner
